The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Cruel Murder of Mina Miller, by Unknown

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Cruel Murder of Mina Miller

Author: Unknown

Release Date: December 17, 2017 [EBook #56191]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CRUEL MURDER OF MINA MILLER ***




Produced by The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (Images Courtesy of Cornell University
Law Library, Trial Pamphlets Collection)









  WEDDED AND MURDERED WITHIN AN HOUR!

  THE CRUEL MURDER OF MINA MILLER
  BY
  KENKOUWSKY, alias “KETTLER.”

  The Guttenberg-Hoboken Tragedy.

  A THRILLING AND REMARKABLE CASE, WHICH
  RECALLS THE MURDER OF MARY RODGERS,
  “THE SEGAR GIRL,” WHICH TOOK PLACE ON
  THE SAME SPOT, THE SCENE OF OTHER
  MURDERS OF A LIKE CHARACTER.

  THE ONLY LIFE OF MINA MILLER PUBLISHED

  BARCLAY & CO., Publishers,
  21 North Seventh Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

  AGENTS WANTED AT ALL TIMES.




  Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1881, by
  BARCLAY & CO.,
  In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C.




THE MINA MULLER MURDER.

MURDERED BY HER HUSBAND OF AN HOUR.


On Friday morning, the 13th of last May, a German, whose purpose was
to gather green leaves to sell to florists in N. Y. city, entered the
path leading from Bergen avenue, in the district known as Bull’s Ferry,
north of Weehawken. He had followed it eastward toward the river about
100 feet, and had turned aside to the right about twenty feet, when
he was appalled by almost stepping upon the dead body of a woman. He
hurried away to inform the police.

Early in the afternoon Coroner Wiggins, of Hoboken, visited the spot
and made a careful examination. He judged that the woman had not been
over 25 years old. Along the top of the head, on the left side, was a
deep gash, and beneath it the skull was fractured. There was another
gash over the right eye. Both of these gashes were apparently made
with the edge of a stone. The nose was broken in the middle. The right
side of the head had apparently been crushed by a stone. The left ear
was injured as if an ear-ring had been torn from it. Search was made
for the missing ear-ring, but it was not found. Her face had become
blackened by the sun, which shone upon the spot where the body lay. The
features were small and symmetrical. She wore number one or number two
buttoned shoes.

An investigation was at once begun by the coroner, but without much
success.

On the 18th the young woman was completely identified as Mrs.
Philomena Muller, the wife of Simon Muller, a tobacconist, at 502 West
Thirtieth street, N. Y. Mr. Muller called at the Morgue at 3 o’clock on
the afternoon of May 18th, in company with a lady whom he introduced as
Miss Maria Schmidt, his wife’s sister. He said they desired to look at
the body. They were led into the damp vault, and at sight of the body
Miss Schmidt was overcome, and she retired to the adjoining basement.
Mr. Muller gazed upon the body calmly. The jewelry and clothing of
the dead woman were shown to him, and he positively identified them
as the property of his wife. He said that he had given her the cameo
brooch. Mr. Muller said that some time ago his wife deserted him,
and since then she had not lived with him. Miss Schmidt had seen her
sister about two weeks before. Mrs. Muller then informed her that she
had found a decent man, who was going to marry her and take her to
Germany in the steamer L’Amerique, which was to sail on the 4th of May.
When Miss Schmidt told Mr. Muller of this he went to the wharf of the
Transatlantic Steamship Company on the morning of May 4th, and remained
at the gang plank of the vessel until all the passengers had gone
aboard. He was certain that his wife was not among them, but he did not
know her paramour.

Before this identification was made, the authorities of Hudson county
had obtained conclusive evidence of the fact that the murdered woman
was Mrs. Philomena Muller, and that her assassin had married her on the
morning of the day on which he killed her, and had taken passage on the
following day for Europe. As Mrs. Finck, the wife of an alehouse keeper
in Pierce Avenue, West New York, was sitting in her saloon on the
afternoon of Tuesday, the 3d of May, a man and a woman entered and sat
down at a table. The woman ordered drinks, and called for a glass of
beer. Her companion drank soda water. While they were there the woman
talked almost incessantly. She said that they came from Morrisania. She
seemed to have plenty of money. When she paid for the refreshments,
Mrs. Finck noticed a large roll of bank notes in her pocketbook,
besides some silver and gold. Before going away, the woman borrowed
a corkscrew to open a bottle of Rhine wine which she had with her.
She said she had bought the bottle in Union Hill. Mrs. Finck minutely
described the woman, and the description tallied exactly with that of
the woman who was murdered. Prosecutor McGill was so impressed with
the accuracy of Mrs. Finck’s description, that he specially detailed
Detectives Swinton and Fanning to trace the movements of the unknown
couple. They began their search on Tuesday evening, May 17th, and
Wednesday the 18th they submitted to the Prosecutor a circumstantial
account of their discoveries.

They began by looking for the person from whom the bottle of Rhine wine
had been purchased. Every saloon along the Boulevard and the Hackensack
plank road was visited, but to no purpose. Continuing their inquiries,
they entered an inn kept by Edward Stabel, on the Weaverstown road.
When they questioned him he said he remembered that on the day
indicated by them a woman had called at his place and asked for a
bottle of Rhine wine. As he did not have any he sent his granddaughter,
Lizzie Haas, to Mr. Eberling’s store, in Bergenline avenue, for a
bottle of it. While the girl was absent the woman chatted pleasantly
with Stabel. She told him, among other things, that she had just been
married by the Rev. Mr. Mabon, the pastor of the Grove Reformed Dutch
Church, and that she wanted the wine to celebrate the event, and to
treat the minister. She also said that she was about to sail for
France. When the girl came back with the bottle of wine the woman paid
her fifty cents for it, and gave her ten cents additional out of a $5
gold piece that Stabel changed for her. On leaving the saloon the woman
was joined by a man. Stabel could not recollect anything in particular
about the man, except that he had stood outside on the street while the
woman bought the wine. But he gave a very accurate description of the
woman and her dress, which tallied both with Mrs. Finck’s description
of the woman she had seen, and with that of the murdered woman. Mrs.
Stabel furnished additional details. She said the woman came to the
saloon on the 3d of May. She was sure of the date, because on the
same day there was a burial in the Grove Church Cemetery which is
only a short distance from the inn. The woman told Mrs. Stabel of her
marriage, and explained that it had been secretly performed, because
her brother disliked her husband, and had objected to the match. She
also said that she had been married once before, and had attended a
cigar store which her former husband kept in N. Y. city. Mrs. Stabel’s
circumstantial description of the woman tallied yet more accurately
than her husband’s with that of the murdered woman.

The detectives then went to the parsonage of the Grove Reformed Dutch
Church, where they found the Rev. Dr. Mabon. He recollected having
married a couple on May 3d. The woman, he said, entered his residence
alone, leaving the man in the yard, where he paced up and down as
if absorbed in meditation. The woman asked Mr. Mabon if he would
perform a marriage, and upon being told yes, she went out and returned
immediately with the man. As the couple had not provided a witness, the
clergyman called in John Schuman, a barber in Union street, Union Hill.
The man and woman made satisfactory replies to the usual questions, and
they were married in legal form. After the ceremony they subscribed
the following record of the marriage, which is now in Mr. Mabon’s
possession:

  On Tuesday, May 3, 1881, Louis Kettler, single, aged 33,
  bricklayer by occupation, and residence 1511 Second avenue, New
  York, married to Mina Schmidt, single, aged 34, residence, 1247
  Third avenue, New York. Father of bridegroom, Louis Kettler;
  father of bride, Anastasius Schmidt. Both of the contracting
  parties were born in Katenheim, Germany.

The woman did most of the talking, and seemed to be in excellent
spirits. She exhibited a bulky pocketbook, and asked Mr. Mabon how much
his charge was. He replied that she might pay him whatever she thought
proper. As she had no small bills she went out to get change, and came
back presently with the money and a bottle of Rhine wine, which she
offered to the clergyman. When he refused it she tried to persuade him
to take a drink, but he declined, and, after a few more words, the
strange couple quitted the parsonage. Mr. Mabon could not recollect
anything about the dress of either of the parties, but his colored
servant girl told the detectives that she had particularly noticed the
man as he was striding up and down the garden, and acting as if his
mind was troubled. She said he was stout, with a full face and dark
moustache, and wore a high, flat-topped Derby hat.

Mrs. Sarah Rigler, who lives in the neighborhood of the church, saw the
couple before their marriage. They came along the road, and the woman
stopped and asked Mrs. Rigler:

“Can you please direct me to a priest?”

“Do you want a priest or a minister?” Mrs. Rigler inquired.

“I want a Protestant priest,” the woman responded. “I am going to be
married, and I want him to marry us.”

Mrs. Rigler’s description of the woman was almost precisely the
same as Mrs. Stabel’s. The man, she said, was quiet, and did not say
anything in her hearing. When the couple were last seen by the people
in the neighborhood of the church they were walking together toward
West New York by a road that led in the direction of Finck’s saloon and
the Guttenberg ferry.

[Illustration: MARTIN KENKOUWSKY.]

[Illustration: MINA MULLER.]

The detectives next went to 1247 Third avenue, N. Y. city, the number
that had been given to Mr. Mabon by the bride as her residence. There
they were unable for a long time to find any trace of Mina Schmidt.
Finally the daughter of the janitor remembered that a woman answering
Miss Schmidt’s description had been living at service with a family
in the house. But the family had moved, and the servant had gone with
them. An expressman named Body had taken away her trunks. After a
tedious search Body was found. The young woman whose trunks he had
removed proved not to have been the murdered woman. But Body said that
about the 1st of May a woman whom he knew as Mrs. Mina Muller offered
to sell him some articles of furniture, as she was about to move.
They were unable to agree on the price. Mrs. Muller returned shortly
afterward and left an order to have an express wagon call for her
baggage at 1511 Second avenue, where she was then staying. Body sent
William Norke, one of his drivers, to the place, and the man received
from Mrs. Muller four trunks, a bundle of bedding, and a valise,
which, by her directions, he carried to Theodore Scherrer’s Hotel, at
178 Christopher street. Body and Norke described Mrs. Muller, and the
detectives were satisfied that she was the woman who, under the name
of Mina Schmidt, was married by Mr. Mabon in the Grove Church. A man
whom the driver did not know, but who, from his appearance, he believed
to have been the murderer, superintended the transfer of her packages,
and rode in the wagon with Norke to the hotel. On the way there he told
Norke that he intended soon to sail for Europe.

At 1511 Second avenue, whither the detectives next proceeded,
they found a German woman named Mrs. Schwan, who keeps a dyeing
establishment. She did not know any man named Kettler, but she said
that a man who answered in every respect the description of Kettler had
lived in the house, but had moved about the first of May. He had lived,
she said, with a young widow, to whom she had heard he was married.
Mrs Schwan described the woman, and again the description tallied with
that of the murdered woman. Mrs. Schwan had been told that the woman
had another husband living in Thirty-ninth street. Charles Rost, the
landlord, said that on March 3d Mrs. Muller had engaged three rooms,
front, on the top floor, and had furnished them comfortably. She told
Rost that she was working for Hahn, the butcher, in Third Avenue. Her
husband, Mr. Muller, she said, had died of consumption, and had left
her $1,000 insurance on his life. She was away all day as a rule, and
returned to her apartments in the evening.

“One day,” said Mr. Rost, “about five weeks after she came here, I
had occasion to go to the roof. Her room door was wide open, and Mrs.
Muller was at work within fixing up her curtains and arranging her
room. I said to her in fun:

“You ought to have a husband here, Mrs. Muller.”

“‘Oh! I’ve got one,’ she said. ‘My name is Mrs. Kettler now. I’m not
Mrs. Muller any longer.’” She said, too, that her new husband was a
mason, kalsominer and paper hanger, and was getting good wages. A few
days after that Mr. Rost met him in the hallway of the house for the
first time, and asked if he lived there. He also told Kettler that
he believed Mrs. Muller had another husband living. His suspicions
had been excited by the woman’s talk of her dead husband and her
inconsistent lack of mourning attire or demeanor. On May 2nd, they sold
their furniture, and moved their trunks and bedding, no one then knew
whither. “The man,” said Mrs. Rost, “was a greenhorn,” and this was the
testimony of others in the building who had noticed him.

Among the persons by whom the woman had been employed was Moise Hahn, a
butcher in Third avenue. He said that she worked for him until May 1st,
when she quitted, as she intended to go to Europe. She was then living
with a foreigner whose name Hahn did not know, but whose description
corresponded with that of the groom in the marriage ceremony in Mr.
Mabon’s house. She told Hahn that she was going with him to Mulhausen
in Alsace.

Mr. Scherrer of Scherrer’s Hotel at 178 Christopher street, to which
place Norke had carried the trunks and bundles belonging to the woman
who gave her name as Mina Miller, informed the detectives that on
Monday evening, May 2, a German went there with an express wagon
containing four trunks, a bundle of bedding, and a valise.

“The man,” Scherrer said, “afterwards introduced a woman who he said
was his wife. She was very talkative and had all the money and paid
all the bills. The man told me that they were going to sail in the
steamship L’Amerique on the 4th inst., and were going to Mulhausen, in
Alsace. On the day they came to my place the man, who said his name
was Kettler, left the trunks here, but spent the night at Mr. Boker’s
place, two doors further down the street. On Monday, May 3, Mr. and
Mrs. Kettler and I had a long chat about the old country, and about
noon they left my place and went to the direction of the Christopher
Street Ferry. Mrs. Kettler promised my wife that she would come back
to bid us good-by. Late on Tuesday night Mr. Kettler returned alone.
I asked him where his wife was, and he said she had gone to spend the
night at her sister’s house, and was to meet him on board the steamship
in the morning. He seemed to me to be very much excited and uneasy, and
his behaviour struck me at the time as peculiar. The next morning he
had his trunks sent to the steamship wharf, and went away. That is the
last I saw of him.”

Louis Groth keeps a lager beer saloon in Thirty-ninth street, near
Ninth avenue. A friend of his living at 1511 Second avenue, in the same
house with Mrs. Muller, told Groth of her being there with Kettler.
Groth told Mr. Schmidt, Mrs. Muller’s brother, who lives at 555 Ninth
avenue, and he informed Mr. Muller of his wife’s whereabouts.

Mr. Schmidt was at his home at 555 Ninth avenue last evening. He told
our reporter who called that he saw his sister for the last time on the
Sunday before the murder. Previous to that, upon the information from
Louis Groth that she was living with Kettler in Second avenue, he saw
her there, and remonstrated with her. He also had a talk with Kettler,
who, however, said nothing of any proposed marriage. He said, however,
that he knew Muller. Muller told Schmidt that he didn’t know Kettler.
Schmidt says that when his sister Mina called at his house on Sunday
she got a bank book containing $40 which he had been keeping for her,
and told him that she had sold her furniture, and had altogether $116.
She was going to marry Kettler on Tuesday, May 3, and go with Kettler
to Alsace, which was his former home. Her brother says he told her he
did not want her to marry again while she had a husband, but she said
she was determined to do so.

Mr. Schmidt has a brother August, a musician, living at 49 Avenue A.
and two sisters now living one of whom is married. Muller, he says, was
attentive to the unmarried sister, and Mrs. Muller and he continually
quarrelled about this intimacy. Their disputes were so violent as to
attract the attention of the people in the house where they lived in
Thirty-ninth street, and once Mr. Muller was badly whipped, it is
reported, by some friends of Mrs. Muller.

Muller and his wife were married in 1874, and lived for three and a
half years in the house at 338 West Thirty-ninth street. Muller made
cigars and kept a small store there. When he and his wife could stand
each other no longer, said Mr. Schmidt, they separated, and Mrs. Muller
for a while lived in a house in the same block. About three months
previous to the murder she left the neighborhood and secured employment
in the butcher shop of Moise Heahn in Third avenue. Muller sold his
store out on April 1, and removed to his present place in Thirtieth
street. Mr. Schmidt said that Kettler, after marrying his sister,
undoubtedly led her to the lonely place of the murder for the sole
purpose of killing and robbing her of the $116 which she had, and the
gold watch and chain.

As Mrs. Muller left her brother’s house on Sunday she said to the
saloon-keeper on the ground floor, “I’ve got another man--a nice man
now--and I’m all right again.”

Kettler had been only seven months in this country.

Attorney-General Stockton directed Mr. McGill to telegraph to the
authorities at Havre, describing Kettler, and requesting his arrest on
a charge of murder. Detective Edward Stanton was to sail for Europe on
Saturday in pursuit of the murderer, but subsequent events proved this
unnecessary, as the reader will learn by following this complete and
dramatic recital.




TRACKED AND ARRESTED.

  Wildly Declaring his Innocence, yet admitting that he was in
  Hoboken with the murdered woman--“She Led Me Astray”--A very
  Touching Scene with his Wife.


Martin Kenkouwsky, alias Louis Kettler, the murderer of Mrs. Mina
Muller, was captured on the night of May 19th, 1881, by Policemen
Morris Fitzgerald and Richard Tregonning of the Thirty-seventh street
police station, as he was walking in Thirty-sixth street, near Tenth
Avenue, New York City. The clue which led to his detection was
discovered and followed out almost to the end by Gustavus A. Seide,
a reporter for a Jersey City newspaper, and compares, as a piece
of amateur detective work, with the detection of Chastine Cox, the
murderer of Mrs. Hull. Seide recognized that there was a flaw in the
theory that the alleged murderer had gone to Europe in the Amerique.
There was no certainty that the baggage which was taken from Sherrer’s
house on the day the steamer sailed was delivered at the pier of the
French line, nor was there positive evidence that Kettler himself had
been seen on the pier that morning. Superintendent West of the French
pier said that on the day the Amerique sailed, a man answering somewhat
Kettler’s description had applied to him for a ticket, and he had
referred him to the purser. Baggage corresponding to what Kettler was
supposed to have taken with him the Superintendent had not seen on the
pier.

Seide came over to New York early Thursday morning, May 19th, and
proceeded at once to look for the man who was supposed to have taken
Kettler’s baggage from Scherrer’s Hotel to the pier. Scherrer had seen
the man in the neighborhood quite frequently, but did not know his
name or where he kept. He, however, described him to Seide as a tall,
well-built man, with dark moustache and dark complexion. The reporter
started out, and visited the truck stands between Christopher and
Twentieth streets, but could not find his man. Returning to Scherrer’s,
he found a man, whom he describes as a “dilapidated individual,” taking
a drink at the bar. Seide again asked Scherrer for a description of the
truckman. Scherrer gave it as before, adding that he drove a red truck
with one brown horse. Here the “dilapidated individual” spoke up and
said, the truckman might be found at Christopher and Bleecker streets.
On inquiring there Seide learned that he changed his stand a few days
before; but where he had gone no one in the immediate vicinity could
tell. He, however, discovered that his name was C. A. Strang. He then
made inquiries for Strang’s whereabouts in various smithies and liquor
stores, and in one of the latter he ascertained that Strang lived in
Greenwich street, on the west side, a few doors below Christopher
street.

At this point Seide telegraphed over to Detective Stanton of the New
Jersey force, and awaited his arrival. Then they went to Strang’s
house, where Mrs. Strang informed them that her husband was at the
new market, corner of West and Gansvoort streets. There they found
him. They asked him if, on the morning of the sailing of the Amerique,
he had taken baggage belonging to Kettler to the steamship wharf. He
replied that he had not; he had taken the baggage to a Mrs. Clifford’s,
at 179 Charles street, and about ten days afterward he had removed
the valise and three ordinary yellow trunks to 510 West Thirty-sixth
street. The other trunk, which was long and black, he had not seen
again. He was not sure whether he had taken the first load on the 3d
or 4th instant. He at first refused to go with them to the house in
Charles street, saying he was too busy; but when Seide and Stanton
offered to pay him for his time, he consented.

Mrs. Clifford said that a man answering Kettler’s description had
come to the house either on the 3d or 4th inst., and she remembered
that Strang had brought a valise and four trunks. Kettler had remained
at the house about ten days, paying her regularly. Once he paid her
with a five-dollar gold piece. She did not notice anything peculiar
or restless in his behaviour. He kept to the house pretty closely,
though he was generally out nights. She saw, however, that he read the
newspapers very closely. He told her that he was going to California.
When asked if on his departure he had taken all his baggage, she
said, no, he had left a long black trunk, which they would find in
the wood-shed. They opened the trunk, and found it full of crockery
and cooking utensils. They carried it to Strang’s truck, and directed
Strang to carry it to the house in Thirty-sixth street, to ask for
Kettler, and if Kettler was there, to give them a sign, as they would
remain outside. Strang inquired for Kettler, but was told that no
man of that name lived there; but that a man corresponding to the
description lived one flight up with a wife and two children. Strang
took the trunk up stairs, and found a woman, a young boy, and a little
girl in the room designated. The woman said the trunk belonged to
Martin Kenkouwsky, her husband, and offered to pay fifty cents for its
delivery. Strang then signalled to Seide and Stanton that the man was
not in, and the reporter and detective went to an adjoining house, and
received permission to watch from the windows. Seide went out again
to speak to Strang, and while he was talking to him in front of 510
West Thirty-sixth street, both were arrested by Policeman Tregonning.
The police of Capt. Washburn’s precinct had been looking for the same
man, and had traced him to this same house. This was the cause of
the arrest of Seide and Strang. When they got to the station, Seide
explained to the Captain who he was, and the Captain sent him back with
a policeman to get Stanton to identify him. At first they couldn’t
find Stanton, and the policeman wanted to take Seide back. In the
meantime the Captain had sent Policeman Fitzgerald to aid Tregonning
in arresting Kenkouwsky. The policemen, Seide, and Stanton, who had
meanwhile relieved Seide of his embarrassment, waited for about three
hours, when they saw a man answering the description of the murderer
walking up the street. Policeman Fitzgerald arrested him. He offered
no resistance, and his only exclamation was in German: “Was ist? was
ist? was ist?” He was at once taken to the station, where he was locked
up. Sergeant Brown was sent down for Scherrer, and a policeman was
despatched for Strang. Scherrer arrived about twenty minutes after the
arrest, and identified the prisoner as the man who had been at his
house under the name of Kettler. Strang also soon appeared, and he too
identified Kettler. Meanwhile Policemen had entered the room at 510
West Thirty-sixth street, notified the woman of her husband’s arrest,
and taken the four trunks and the valise to the station. Our reporter
was present when the trunks were opened. Almost the first thing found
when one of the yellow trunks was opened was a letter addressed to
Mrs. Mina Muller, 338 West Thirty-ninth street. In a corner of the
envelope was printed “Germania Lodge, No. 70, K. of H.” It contained a
request for her to attend a lodge meeting on Jan. 10. The trunks were
full of articles of female attire, and in one of them was a pair of
men’s gloves of white leather, stained with dirt and badly torn, as
though whoever wore them had been handling some rough object. It is
thought that Kenkowski wore these gloves when he was married and when
he crushed Mina Muller’s skull with stones. A gray wrapper, and a straw
bonnet and table covers were among the other objects found.

[Illustration: MARRIAGE CEREMONY WHICH TOOK PLACE AN HOUR BEFORE THE
MURDER.]

[Illustration: MURDERING MINA MULLER IN THE WOODS NORTH OF WEEHAWKEN.]

At about half-past 9 the prisoner’s wife arrived at the station with
her boy, who was crying bitterly. She asked why her husband had been
arrested, and why the trunks had been taken away. When asked what his
name was, she replied, “Martin Kenkouwski,” and added that they had
been married ten years ago in Alsace, and had only been in this country
a little more than half a year. Her husband was a mason and kalsominer.
When asked if he had been at home regularly lately, she said he had
been away about ten days in the beginning of the month.

“Do you know,” asked the interpreter (the woman and her husband spoke
in German), “that he married another woman, and killed her?”

“I don’t believe it,” she replied firmly, while the boy cried more
loudly than before. “I don’t believe it!” she reiterated. “Let me see
him! Don’t cry my child” (turning to the boy), “or you will make me
weep. Don’t cry!” Here her voice faltered, and she burst into tears.

She was then led to the cell. Here a heart-rending scene occurred. She
threw herself with her child against the grating, sobbing and calling
for her husband. He was far back in the cell, and when he heard her and
the child, he shrieked from out of the darkness:

“Katrina! Katrina! Merciful Heavens! My child! My child! Great God, are
you here!”

Then he rushed forward to the cell door, pressed his face against the
iron trellis work, lifted his hands and called out: “Before God I stand
a guiltless man, and if I die I die guiltless. I was misled by the
wicked woman; she led me astray. My God, Katrina! Katrina! Give me your
hand!”

Here he thrust his hand through the cell gate, and his wife clasped it.
She was too much overcome to speak for a while, and the child moaned
and sobbed. Kenkouwski continued reiterating his innocence, when he
called out again. “The wicked woman misled me; she led me astray.”

His wife exclaimed: “Have I not been a good wife? Have I not prayed to
God for you?” Then she sobbed again. After a while she said to him: “I
don’t believe you killed her! I don’t believe it!” After this she and
the child were led away, and he called after them: “By God, Katrina, I
am innocent. I am innocent.”

The woman said he had always been a good husband to her, nor did she
seem to know anything of Mina Muller. She said nothing when asked what
she had thought when her husband came back with three yellow trunks
after an absence of ten days.

Shortly after the woman left, Kenkouwski was led before the Sergeant
for examination. He looked wild and nervous, and gesticulated
violently. “He must be watched well to-night,” said one of the
policemen, “or he’ll hang himself.” As he approached the desk, he
suddenly threw up his arms and exclaimed:

“Now, I will tell you the truth. If it is not the truth you may take a
knife and cut my throat, like this,” (here he pulled his finger across
his neck.) “Mina Schmidt told me the other day that she knew I was
married, but she wanted me to marry her and go to Germany with her,
where she had very good parents living. At that time I didn’t know she
was married. We went to Guttenberg to get married, and when we got
over there we went to the Schutzen Park. Two men there came up to me
and told me that she did not love me, that she loved another. When she
heard this she sprang up and ran away from me, and I have not seen her
since.”

He was then led back to his cell. He was again brought from his
cell at about 11 o’clock to be looked at by the reporters assembled
in the Thirty-seventh street station. He had been lying down, and
the light dust from the cell floor covered his back. He looked in a
bewildered manner at the throng about him, spoke a few words in German,
reasserting what he had previously said in regard to the murder, and
was taken back again. His eyes were bloodshot, and he spoke in a
nervous manner.

“Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu!” exclaimed Kenkouwsky, “does any one speak French?

“I do!” replied another reporter, addressing him in French.

Kenkouwsky sprang from his seat and, with tears falling fast, seized
the reporter by the hand and said: “Tell them that as our Saviour, who
was crucified, was innocent, so am I!”

“Of what?” asked the reporter.

“Of the murder of Mina Schmidt. I married her that day, although I
have a wife here. She told me she loved me. I did not tell her I was
married. After we were married we went to Schuetzen Park. There we sat
at a table drinking, when two men came by. They greeted Mina as old
friends, and we all drank together. One of the men took her away, and
the other then told me that Mina had said that she did not love me.
They all left me, and I, after hunting for them, came back to this city
and tried to find her.”

Chief of Police Donovan of Hoboken, who had been standing by all this
time and listening to what the reporter quickly translated, touched the
reporter on the shoulder and said: “Ask him if he was not in Jersey
City last night.”

The reporter asked the question. Kenkouwsky staggered back and
repeated, “Jersey City! Jersey City! Where is that?” The reporter
repeated the question.

Kenkouwsky replied: “I was with my wife last night.”

“In Jersey City?” asked the reporter.

“No; I was with a woman there.”

Chief Donovan’s eyes brightened, and he then said: “Last Monday a
young girl, whose name I cannot now mention, was taken into a house by
this man. He made her drink wine, and as she was partly stupefied, he
locked the doors and assaulted her. It was for this offence that I and
my detectives were hunting him up to-day. We did not then suspect that
he was the murderer of Mrs. Schmidt. Last night he was to meet another
girl, but she became frightened and did not stay where he told her to
until he came. He eluded us by ten minutes.”

In the prisoner’s pocket was found a clipping from a German paper of
the account of the hanging of Mrs. Meierhoffer and her paramour last
winter. To the reporter he said he had not read any account of the
Guttenberg murder until the day previous to his arrest.

At midnight Chief Donovan had the trunks of Mrs. Mina Schmidt taken
over to Hoboken.

Detective Stanton told our reporter that an empty watch case had been
found in the room at 510 West Thirty-sixth street. On the yellow trunks
labels were pasted with the address:

  +--------------------------+
  | MONSIEUR JOSEPH REYMANN, |
  |                          |
  |    No. 52 Rue Clissant,  |
  |                          |
  |      Paris (France).     |
  +--------------------------+

The purpose of this address was, it is supposed, to induce Scherrer to
believe that he was to take the French steamer.

Seide says he has ascertained that on Monday night, May 2, Kenkouwsky
applied at Becker’s Hotel in Christopher street, for a room, but
refused to write his name. The entry is in the hotel clerk’s hand.
“Louis Kettler, Room No. 1.”

Coroner Wiggins began an inquest in the case in Hoboken on the
afternoon of May 19th. Simon Muller, the husband of the murdered
woman, testified: “Coroner Wiggins told me on Wednesday that my wife
had been found murdered in Guttenberg. I told him that it could not be
so, for that she had gone to Germany with a man from Alsace. I went
to the French steamship wharf on the day I heard they were to sail,
and watched for her until the ship sailed, but she did not come. I was
married to her five years ago. Our married life was unhappy, and on the
5th of last January she left me. She had then between $75 and $100.”

Carl Schmidt, the brother of the murdered woman, testified: “I last
saw my sister Philomina at my place, 555 Ninth avenue, New York. She
came to my house on Sunday, May 1, at about 5 o’clock in the afternoon.
She told me she was going with a man named Louis Kettler to Mulhausen,
in Alsace. I asked her why she was going. She replied that Kettler was
well off at home. ‘You know,’ she said, ‘what treatment I have had
from my husband.’ I told her that I knew he did not treat her right,
but that she should not go with this man, as she did not know him at
all. And further, I told her that she must first get a separation from
Muller before she could go with another man. She answered, ‘I don’t
care how it will result, I will go with him. My husband tried to shoot
me.’ She also told me that she had known Kettler for four weeks, and
he had told her that he had property in Mulhausen, and that he would
give her a good home there. Kettler, she said, was richer than the
whole Schmidt family. She left me at about 6½ o’clock to go to my
other sister’s house in Tenth avenue, between Nineteenth and Twentieth
streets. I never saw Kettler but once, and that was on a Sunday in
April in Second avenue, near Seventy-ninth street, in my sister’s
apartments. On May 2nd a cousin of my wife met Kettler on the street
and asked him when he and Mina were going to Europe. He replied that
he was not going to Europe. The cousin then asked what Mina would do,
and he said she would go to the country, where she had friends to stay
with. Kettler then suggested that the cousin and he should go off
together, and leave Mina behind. Since the 3rd of May, on the 9th or
10th of the month, I think, the woman Sacks saw Louis Kettler passing
up on the opposite side of the street. When she noticed him she called
my wife, who was in the room with her, to the window.”

The Rev. Dr. Mabon, the pastor of the Grove Reformed Dutch Church, on
the Weavertown road, at whose house the murdered woman and Kettler were
married, testified that he had performed the ceremony.

“When I asked the man,” he said, “if he took the woman for his lawful
wife, he answered ‘Yes,’ and at the time I noticed a tear in his eye.”

The inquest was suddenly adjourned on the news of the murderer’s arrest
in N. Y. city.




THREATENING TO LYNCH HIM.

  The Scene at his Parting from his Wife and Children--Angry
  Throngs in Hoboken--Giving Away the Murdered Woman’s Watch--The
  Testimony.


Over in New York Martin Kenkowsky was closely watched. He was so
agitated when he was led back to his cell on Thursday night, that
Policeman Finerty was detailed to watch him, as it was feared he might
attempt to kill himself. The policeman says that the prisoner was
restless until after sunrise. At first he paced the cell like a caged
animal, stopping now and then and pressing his face against the gate,
his bloodshot eyes glaring through the trellis work. This continued
several hours. Then, for the first time, he gave way to his feelings.
He threw himself upon the floor and moaned piteously. Then he sprang
up again, leaped to the gate, and tried to shake it. After that he
again paced the cell, wringing his hands wildly and calling out German
words which the policeman could not understand. Toward morning he
became more quiet, but even when lying down he tossed about and did not
sleep. Finerty says that Kenkowsky is one of the most powerful men he
has seen; that when he tried to shake the cell gate he could see the
muscles moving beneath his sleeves.

The news that the Guttenberg murderer had been captured spread rapidly
in the neighborhood, and by eight o’clock in the morning some 400
persons were in Thirty-seventh street, pressing toward the police
station and standing on either side of the station nearly all the way
to Ninth and Tenth avenues. A little after 8 o’clock a woman with a
young boy at her side and a little girl in her arms was seen trying to
make her way through the crowd. Whenever it was so dense as to impede
her progress she spoke a few words, and those in the immediate vicinity
fell back and allowed her to pass. The boy was crying bitterly, but
the woman’s features were firmly set, and the little girl, who seemed
to be about 6 years old, was quiet. When the woman had made her way to
the station door she hesitated a moment. Then she entered, dragging the
boy, who seemed unwilling to follow, after her. She was the prisoner’s
wife. People now began to climb upon some empty trunks near by, and
even women with babies in their arms were seen on the wagons. Up to
this point the crowd had been quiet. But when the coach in which
Kenkowsky was to be conveyed to the Jefferson Market Police Court
appeared, some one shouted, “Kill him!” and an angry howl went up from
the dense throng.

“Lynch him! Hang him to a lamp post!” was shouted by others. No
attempt, however, was made to carry out these threats.

Meanwhile Chief of Police Donovan of Hoboken and Detective Stanton had
arrived, and the prisoner had been led from his cell. When he saw his
wife and children he burst into tears. His wife also wept and called
out:

“Why did you not take my advice? Why did you not stay away from her?”

“I swear to God I am innocent,” he called out. “Let me kiss you,
Katrina; let me kiss you and my children!”

He stepped toward her with arms spread as though to embrace her, but
she started back in a half frightened way. The boy, however, sprang
toward him and clasped his arms around his neck. The woman turned her
face away and only allowed him to kiss her neck, while the little
girl pushed him off and then shrank away. Just then the crowd without
howled. Kenkowsky turned ghastly pale and trembled, while his wife
fainted and fell upon the floor, and the boy wept louder than ever. The
little girl leaned over her mother and patted her cheek with one hand,
while with the other she made a repelling motion toward her father. The
prisoner was led away, and as soon as the wife came to her senses she
went away with her children. When the door closed on her she stood for
a moment gazing in a dazed manner at the crowd. The people seemed to
pity her. One man took her hand and led her down the steps, and then
she passed through the crowd unmolested by either word or act. Her
face was pale but calm, and the little girl was as quiet as she had
been throughout all the trying scenes, but the boy, who clung to his
mother’s skirt, was still crying bitterly.

Kenkowsky was again led back before the sergeant at the desk as soon as
his family had gone. He was then quite calm and collected. He turned to
a policeman and said in German: “I am innocent. I suppose you will let
me go home soon.”

“Why,” replied the policeman, “whether you’re guilty or not, you’ll
be mighty lucky if you get off.”

[Illustration: FINDING THE BODY OF MINA SCHMIDT, ALIAS MULLER, ALIAS
KENKOUWSKY, WHERE IT HAD BEEN LEFT BY HER HUSBAND]

The prisoner was then asked if he would go quietly to court, and he
said he would. He was manacled, and between two policemen was marched
out of the station. His appearance was a signal for another howl from
the crowd, who pressed around the party so closely that the policemen
used their clubs. The prisoner turned pale, and trembled as he had done
in the station when he heard the angry cry without. He was hustled into
the coach, and as soon as the door was closed the driver whipped up
his horses, and they started off at such speed that the crowd had to
fall back. Many, however, ran after the coach several blocks down Ninth
avenue, and some boys followed it all the way to the Jefferson Market
Police Court.

The prisoner was taken into a small room, and when court was opened
he was led before Justice Morgan. Capt. Washburn, Coroner Wiggins,
Chief Donovan, Detective Stanton, and G. A. Seide were in court. Capt.
Washburn stated the case to the Justice, and said the New Jersey
authorities wished to have the custody of the prisoner. The Justice
called up Kenkowsky and asked if he knew why he was to be taken to
New Jersey. The French interpreter translated the question, but the
prisoner said he understood German better than he did French, so the
German interpreter was called in. Kenkowsky replied in the affirmative.
He further said that he knew his legal rights, but that he was willing
to go to New Jersey without any formal proceedings. The Justice then
endorsed the warrant and Capt. Washburn handed over the prisoner to
Chief Donovan. Kenkowsky’s manacles had been taken off, and he asked
that he be allowed to have his arms free. His request was granted.

Kenkowsky was then again placed in the coach, which was driven
hurriedly through West Tenth street to the Hoboken ferry and upon the
ferryboat Moonachie.

Kenkowsky’s coming had been anticipated in Hoboken, and an immense
throng had gathered at the ferry on the Hoboken side, rendering the
streets leading to the river almost impassable. As each boat reached
the slip the policemen on duty there experienced the utmost difficulty
in restraining the crowd that pressed forward eagerly in the desire
to get a glimpse of the prisoner. When at last he landed on the New
Jersey shore the carriage was driven as rapidly as possible through
the multitude in the direction of Police Headquarters. Some one in
the throng recognized Chief Donovan in the vehicle and shouted to the
bystanders:

“There’s the murderer! There’s the murderer!”

The news spread like wildfire, and was received with mingled threats
and shouts of exultation. Cries of “Hang him!” “Lynch the wretch!”
“We’ll fix him!” were heard on all sides. The coach dashed up Newark
street to Hudson street, pursued by over 2,000 persons, shouting at the
top of their voices. Chief Donovan deemed it prudent to avoid the still
larger crowds that swarmed around the police station on Washington
street. He therefore directed the driver to pull up his horses at the
end of an alley that led to the rear of the building. The prisoner was
conducted through this passage to the station. He was placed in a cell
at the end of the corridor.

While he was lying in jail awaiting the opening of the inquest,
which had been adjourned until 2 o’clock, another link in the chain
of circumstantial evidence against him was being prepared. Regina
Herkfeldt, 20 years old, of 153 Newark avenue, told the police that on
Monday, May 9, she went to an intelligence office in Mott street to get
a situation as a servant. There she met a man answering Kenkowsky’s
description. He engaged her to do housework, and took her to 149
Charles street. There he locked her in a room and assaulted her. He
then led her to the street and left her. Afterward he followed her into
a saloon and took her pocketbook and a ring from her finger, and left
the saloon with them. She followed him to Thirty-fifth street and Tenth
avenue, where she lost him. Three or four days afterward the man went
to her brother’s place of business (her brother is a galvanizer in the
Pennsylvania Railroad shops), and told him that he wanted to marry the
girl. After that he went to her house and told her he would marry her,
and they went to Canal street, New York, to her sister’s house. Last
Sunday the man went to her house and told her he was going to Chicago.
He said he wanted to give her a gold watch and a ring. The watch was a
lady’s hunting case gold watch, with flowers engraved on the outside
case. The inside case did not look like gold. The ring was chased, and
had one round dark blue stone set in a crown setting, with four claws
which held the stone. He would not let her keep the ring, but said he
would send her one from Chicago. He went back on Wednesday, the 18th,
and told her she must get a situation, and he would send for her from
Chicago. The girl could not remember the man’s name.

When Chief Donovan heard this story he telegraphed to Jersey City for
the girl, and she was taken to Hoboken by Detective Bowe. Kenkowsky and
a number of other persons were admitted to the large drill room of the
station, and the girl was then led in and requested to point out the
man. No sooner had she entered the apartment than she walked opposite
to Kenkowsky, looked at him steadily for an instant, and then, as she
waved her umbrella toward him, exclaimed:

“Das ist der man.”

“Ask him,” said Chief Donovan to Aid Ringe, “whether he has ever seen
this woman before.”

The aid interpreted the question and the prisoner grunted out a
negative answer.

At 2 o’clock in the afternoon, the hour appointed for the continuation
of the inquest, a great throng swarmed in Washington street between
Police Headquarters and the Morgue. Kenkowsky was led through this
crowd by Chief Donovan and an escort of policemen. The prisoner’s
appearance was greeted with the same threatening cries that had been
uttered on his arrival in Hoboken, but he bore up against the clamor
with real or well-feigned indifference. When he entered the hall and
was being led to a seat at the side of the Coroner’s chair his eyes
accidentally fell upon the lay figure that had been draped with the
clothing of the murdered woman. When he saw it he averted his face with
a perceptible tremor. He almost immediately recovered his composure and
dropped into his seat.

The Rev. Dr. Mabon, the pastor of the Grove Reformed Dutch Church,
testified: “To the best of my knowledge I think the prisoner is the man
that I married under the name of Louis Kettler.”

Sarah Jane Rigler, who had directed the couple to Dr. Mabon’s house on
May 3, testified: “I recognize the prisoner as the man who was with the
woman who asked me where she could get a minister to marry them.”

John E. Schumann, the barber who had been called in by Dr. Mabon to
witness the ceremony, said that he believed the prisoner to be the man
who was married on that occasion.

Regina Herkfeldt testified concerning her acquaintance with Kenkowsky.
She identified a watch that was produced as the one that he gave her.
On cross-examination she considerably modified her previous account of
the prisoner’s assault upon her.

John E. Luthy, a watchmaker of 315 West Thirty-fifth street, testified
that the prisoner called at his place on May 16 with the watch and left
it there, taking a receipt for it.

Charles H. Peters, a roundsman of the Twentieth Precinct, this city,
testified to a conversation he had had with the prisoner at the station
on the night of the arrest. Kenkowsky admitted to him that he knew
Mina Muller. He at first denied but afterward confessed that he had
given a watch to Luthy to have repaired, and that it belonged to Mina
Muller. He told the roundsman that after the trunks had been taken to
Christopher street, Mina proposed to him to take a walk, and they went
over to New Jersey and visited the Scheutzen Park. They strolled into
a saloon on the Guttenberg road and had some beer. After leaving it he
told her he wanted to go back to New York, and she objected. As they
were talking, two men, he asserted, came along the road. One of them
said to the woman: “Hello, Mina! what are you doing over here?” When he
heard this familiar language he turned to his companion, and said: “If
you are that kind of a woman, I’ll have nothing to do with you,” and
then he parted from her, leaving her with the two men.

While the inquest was going on the wife of the prisoner entered the
room and managed to force her way through the throng. When she turned
her eyes toward her husband she threw up her arms and fell unconscious.
She was carried down stairs to the station, where restoratives were
applied.

In the evening Kenkowsky was taken to the county jail and placed in the
cell formerly occupied by Covert D. Bennett.

In the trunks in Kenkowsky’s possession was found, in addition to a
lot of female clothing, a white shirt. The sleeves from the wrists to
the elbows were spotted with blood; the bosom, too, was marked with
similar stains. On each side of the shirt at about the waist there were
marks of bloody fingers. A pair of buckskin gloves with very small
spots of blood on the back was also found; the palms were soiled, as if
they had been used to handle some rough and dusty article.


THE MURDERED WOMAN’S FUNERAL.

At 11 o’clock on the morning of May 20th, Martin Sanger, an undertaker,
removed the body of Mina Muller from the Hoboken Morgue and placed
it in a plain coffin, which was put in a hearse and driven to
the residence of the deceased woman’s brother, Carl Schmidt, 555
Ninth avenue. On the lid of the coffin was a silver plate with the
inscription: “Mina Muller, died May 3, 1881, aged 34 years.” A shield
bearing the words “Ruhe in Frieden,” was also on the coffin. A wreath
of flowers inwoven with the dead woman’s name rested upon the head of
the coffin, surrounded by bouquets. A throng of Germans, mostly women,
were waiting in front of the house for the arrival of the body. When
the hearse appeared at about two o’clock, the sidewalks for nearly
a block were almost impassable. Vehicles blocked the street in some
places, and many men and boys had climbed upon the elevated railroad
columns. Six carriages containing the husband and brothers of the
deceased woman, and the officers of Lodge No. 70, Knights and Ladies of
Honor, accompanied the hearse to the grave in the Lutheran Cemetery.
Louis Schlisenger, the president of the lodge, read its ritual. Mr.
Muller wept during the service.

Mr. Schlisenger said the Lodge would pay the sister of Mrs. Muller
$1,000. Mrs. Muller joined the Lodge several years ago. She originally
assigned the money she was entitled to as a member to her husband, but
on May 3 she revoked this and assigned it to her sister. When Mrs.
Muller saw Mr. Schlisenger she told him she was going to France, and in
case of her death she desired that her sister should receive the money.


THE PERSON WHO CAUSED KENKOWSKY’S CAPTURE ARRESTED AS AN
ACCOMPLICE.--HOW KENKOWSKY SPENT SUNDAY.

At half-past one o’clock on the morning of May 22d, Detectives
Heidelberg and Dolan arrested Philip Emden of 414 West Thirty-ninth
street, on the charge that he was an accomplice of Martin Kenkowsky.
Emden was locked up in a cell at the Police Headquarters. In the
morning, however, he was liberated. It was said that he was arraigned
at the Jefferson Market Police Court and liberated; but on the other
hand it was reported that he was not taken to court at all, but that
Captain Washburn of the Twentieth Precinct called at headquarters, and
that after a conversation the captain had with Inspector Byrnes, Emden
was liberated. The police were reticent about the procedure, but the
result was that Emden was freed.

Capt. Washburn was indignant at Emden’s arrest. He said: “Emden was
the first man to give a clue to Kenkowsky, and I promised to keep
his name a secret. We are in the habit of taking informers’ names in
confidence; otherwise people wouldn’t give us information. Prosecutor
McGill also promised me that he would not disclose the name. I think
Kenkowsky’s wife found out that Emden had given me information, and
she tried, out of revenge, to throw suspicions on him. Emden has lived
three years in the district, and is a quiet, well-behaved man. Chief
Donovan was perfectly willing that Emden should be set at liberty.
Emden will accompany me to testify at the inquest. He certainly has not
behaved like a man who has committed a murder.”

Philip Emden was found at his house, 414 West Thirty-ninth street.
According to his statement he met Kenkowsky shortly after the latter
came to this country. Emden is a mason, and found odd jobs for
Kenkowsky, who is of the same trade. On Feb. 19 last Emden married
Bertha Himmelsbach, and Kenkowsky was one of the witnesses to the
ceremony, though on the certificate his name appears as Martin
Karkowsky. Shortly after the marriage Emden was told by Kenkowsky that
Mina Muller, a friend of his, knew Bertha Himmelsbach, who, she said,
was a bad woman. This led to difficulties between Emden and his wife,
which ended in their separation on April 17. Since that time he has
seen very little of Kenkowsky, but he says that on one occasion the
prisoner showed him a gold watch and chain corresponding to those owned
by Mina Muller. Emden does not know whether this was before or after
the murder.

On Thursday morning he read of the identification, and in H. Luhr’s
liquor store, 587 Tenth avenue, he mentioned that Kenkowsky had known
Mina Muller. Luhr, who knew Kenkowsky, suggested that the description
of the man who was married in Guttenberg tallied with Kenkowsky’s
appearance. Emden made up his mind to see if Kenkowsky was still at
his house, 510 West Thirty-sixth street. As his pretence for calling,
he determined to say that he had a job for the alleged murderer. He
found him in bed, and, when he asked if he wanted the job, Kenkowsky
said that he was engaged as a cook in a Jewish family on Fifth avenue,
and only came home nights. After working hours, Emden went to Capt.
Washburn and informed him of his suspicions, and a policeman was sent
with him to watch the house. In front of the house they found Strang,
the trunkman, who in the meantime had been tracked by Seide. Strang
asked Emden if he could speak German, and, when the latter answered in
the affirmative, requested him to ask the German woman up stairs if
a trunk he was to deliver belonged to her, saying he had left three
trunks there some time previously. Emden went up stairs and asked
Mrs. Kenkowsky if three trunks had been delivered there, and she
said they had not. When Emden came back to Strang with this answer,
Strang requested him to ask again, and this time she replied in the
affirmative; and when Strang brought up Kenkowsky’s trunk, she said, in
surprise: “Why, he told me he had taken it to where he was working in
Fifth avenue.”

Kenkowsky’s wife was found at 510 West Thirty-sixth street. She had
just returned from a visit to her husband in jail. Her eyes were red as
though she had been weeping.

“Philip Emden,” she said, “has been a good friend to me and my poor
little ones. When I told my husband this afternoon in jail that
Philip had been arrested, he threw up his arms and exclaimed: ‘Philip
arrested! Philip, who has always been so good to us? He is innocent,
Katrina, as innocent as I am myself.”

Martin Kenkowsky spent Sunday quietly in his cell in the Hudson County
Jail at Jersey City. He ate his meals regularly and with much relish,
and slept for an hour after dinner. In the afternoon his wife and two
children visited him. He embraced them and had a long conversation with
them in the presence of a turnkey. In the course of their talk the
woman charged him with having stolen a five-dollar gold piece from her
room on the evening of May 3d. That was the day on which the murder
was committed. Kenkowsky admitted that he had taken the money. He said
that after he had left Mina with the two men at Union Hill, he returned
to New York city and went home. There he found the $5 piece, which
his wife had saved, and put it in his pocket. When he was told of the
arrest of Emden he seemed to be very much surprised. He said he knew
Emden, and had become acquainted with him only a short time ago.

“But,” he exclaimed, “he is as innocent as I am.”

The prisoner referred frequently to his former narrative as to the
circumstances under which he parted with Mrs. Muller in New Jersey. He
stated that one of the two men who accosted her in the Schuetzen Park,
and with whom he says he left her, was tall, and had a red moustache,
and the other was shorter and thinner. He was convinced, he declared,
that they murdered her.

City Missionary Verrinder held divine service in the corridor of the
jail on Sunday morning. Kenkowsky, at his own request, was permitted
to attend the exercises. He sat on the foremost bench, directly in
front of the minister, and although he did not understand the sermon,
he bowed his head reverently whenever the name of Jesus was uttered by
the preacher. At an early hour he went to bed, and fell asleep a few
moments later.

The reader who has followed us thus far will perceive that scarcely
ever in the records of modern murder cases has such a steel coil of
circumstantial evidence, in such a small space of time, so completely
woven itself around a murderer. Kenkowsky attempted to prove an alibi
by asserting that on the day of the murder, and several hours before
it could have taken place, he was on his way to cross the river, and
that on his way he had asked the direction to the ferry of a carpenter
whom he saw putting up posts for a fence. This carpenter was found, and
testified that a man on that date had asked him the way to the ferry,
but he failed to recognize Kenkowsky as that man. The bottom of the
alibi leaked, however, when the gentleman on whose property the fence
was being put up showed his diary, in which was recorded a mem. of that
particular job, dated several days after the date of the murder. What
verdict could a coroner’s jury bring in but one fastening the crime on
Kenkowsky? The trial will be read with great interest.


THE END.


[Illustration: MARTIN KENKOUWSKY, ALIAS KETTLER, IN HIS CELL.]

[Illustration: AUGUSTUS A. SEIDE, THE JERSEY CITY REPORTER WHO SOLVED
THE WEEHAWKEN MYSTERY.]




Transcriber’s Note

Efforts have been taken to transcribe this work as originally
published, including inconsistent capitalization and punctuation,
and alternative titles, names and spelling, except on page 37 where
“ogether” has been changed to “together”.





End of Project Gutenberg's The Cruel Murder of Mina Miller, by Unknown

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CRUEL MURDER OF MINA MILLER ***

***** This file should be named 56191-0.txt or 56191-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/6/1/9/56191/

Produced by The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (Images Courtesy of Cornell University
Law Library, Trial Pamphlets Collection)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

